Kubernetes:

Kubernetes is open source container orchestration platform which is used to automate deployment, scaling, and management of containerized applications.

Advantages:

!- It automatically scales up the pods based on traffic load.
2. It deploys new code without downtime.
3. Built-in mechanisms to evenly distribute traffic between diff pods.
4. Self healing: It automatically replaces or restart the failed containers or pods.


Pod:

--> Pod is basically smallest deployable unit which represnt single instance of application.

Deployment:

--> deployment is basically kubernetes objects to manage the pods.



Kubernetes commands

Get pods
kubectl --kubeconfig stage.conf get pods | grep fdx

Describe pods 
kubectl --kubeconfig stage.conf describe pod direct-integration-platform-usbank-586dbd7cf8-cxfv6
 

get logs in file 
kubectl --kubeconfig stage.conf logs  fisglobaldirect-6f579dd587-vtsd7   >> fisglobal4.txt

edit the deployment file:
kubectl --kubeconfig stage.conf edit cm fdx-parser
kubectl --kubeconfig stage.conf edit deployment fdx-parser

rollout/ restart of deployment:
kubectl --kubeconfig stage.conf rollout restart deploy biltdirect

scale down pod:

kubectl --kubeconfig stage.conf scale deploy biltdirect --replicas=0

Describe configMap :
kubectl --kubeconfig stage.conf describe configmap direct-integration-platform-atlanta

To execute curl command in cluster:

Kubectl --kubeconfig stage.conf  exec -it fdx-parser-579bc74ffd-x5k8h sh

Then run curl command

 
kubectl --kubeconfig kube-stg-new.conf logs -f -l app=wellsconnections
 
kubectl --kubeconfig kube-stg-new.conf describe configmap direct-integration-platform-atlanta
 
kubectl --kubeconfig kube-stg-new.conf delete pod usaadirect-784465fcdc-z4dxb
 
 
kubectl --kubeconfig kube-stg-new.conf scale deployconnectivity-queue-manager-pcx --replicas=1
 
kubectl --kubeconfig kube-stg-new.conf get deployment direct-integration-platform-fiserv
 
Kubectl --kubeconfig stage.conf  exec -it chasedirect-77fdfff565-52sg6 sh
 
kubectl --kubeconfig kube-stg-new.conf get nodes -A
 
kubectl --kubeconfig kube-stg-new.conf get events | findstr "fiserv-direct-api-57f69f956b"
 
kubectl --kubeconfig kube-stg-new.conf rollout restart deploy chaseconnection
 
kubectl --kubeconfig kube-stg-new.conf exec biltdirect-6fbf55fb96-44z6b -- ls /usr/src/app/config

kubectl delete pod biltdirect-b89dccfc8-zpqqf  


kubectl --kubeconfig dev-bconfig.conf logs  fisglobaldirect-587887646f-nq4cv >> globalll.txt


Design patterns in microservices:
---> There are multiple design patterns in microservices, But i know some of them.

1. API Gateway Design pattern:

API Gateway Design pattern provides single entry point for clients to route the requests to particular microservices. It act as front controller to route the traffic to multiple microservices.


2. Databse per microservices;

----> In database per microservcies, Each microservice has its own database which ensures loose coupling and independent data management.

3. Circuit breaker pattern:

---> 

4. SAGA design pattern

5. Service discovery Design pattern: 

---> In service discovrey pattern, Microservices get registered with service registery so that microservices can communictae with each other.


